---
title: "My First Blog Post"
description: "Hello world type blog post"
image: "https://static0.colliderimages.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/Pokemon-Salamence-Hunter-J.jpg"
---

# My First Blog Post

Welcome to my blog! I mostly made this as a side project so I could get some experience with web dev
and some basic networking. I'll try to update this when I can. I was thinking I will probably update 
this whenever I want to explain a topic that I am learning. Hopefully, I can also use it to talk about
papers that I publish 👀. For now, I'll walk through how I made this blog site as well as the main 
personal website.


## The process
### Personal website

My personal website was the first website I've ever built from scratch. I only used html and css 
for that since I was just introducing myself to web dev. I used ChatGPT to generate a template 
I could use and went from there to customize the site. I was thinking about learning css, but 
I didn't really want to I won't lie... All of the css in both the personal site and this blog
site are generated by ChatGPT 😅. How do you know that this post wasn't written by ChatGPT? Well,
no rocket emoji - so don't worry about it.

To host my personal website, I just used GitHub Pages because I wanted the main focus of that 
project to be learning some basic web dev concepts. I bought a domain name from Cloudflare and
ended the project there.

### Blog website

For my blog site, I wanted to start using more standard tools, so I started to learn some basic
React using the [tutorial](https://react.dev/learn) on their website which I found quite helpful.
Using React, I quickly setup the frontend with some more css help from ChatGPT :). I didn't have a
backend so I just hardcoded some post metadata and created posts using Markdown and the react-markdown
package. I also utilized client-side routing with react-router since it seemed pretty simple.

After procrastinating the project all school year (2024-2025), I started working on the backend
so that I could actually expose the site to the web. I used the Express framework with the node.js runtime
also because it seemed simple and easy. When I finished developing the backend api, which just needs to serve
all the posts' metadata and actual post content, I adapted the backend to use sqlite3 so that I didn't have
to hardcode anything anymore. I chose sqlite3 because I had used it before, and for something like this 
blog, I just needed something lightweight.

Finally, to actually host the blog site, I used a Cloudflare tunnel daemon to connect both the frontend,
which was served using nginx, and the backend api, which I have running as a process managed by pm2 so that
it's constantly running while my home server is on, to the Cloudflare servers which then serve the content
to the web.

## In conclusion

It was cool to complete these websites and host the blog myself on a home server. The amount of learning 
I had to undergo to even kind of understand what is happening was insane. I think it definitely confirmed
for me what others have said about how beneficial side projects are, but I think I need to get better at
setting aside time for these kind of projects because this took a long time 😭. I'll keep (hopefully) 
updating this blog with anything new I want to talk about, but until then, seeya 👋.
